[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
louise minchin and dan walker our
headlines for you today at six o'clock
non-essential shops gyms and
hairdressers can reopen as planned next
week
in england but foreign holiday plans
remain in doubt
good morning glass half full or half
empty hospitality is back on but it's al
fresco only with no minimum spend
what does that mean for an industry
already on its knees
police searching for the missing student
richard okorou-gaye say a body has been
found in epping forest
former striker chris sutton speaks for
the first time about the death
of his father from dementia
he used to write a diary
and then there and then one day
he picked the pen up he didn't know how
to use it
chris tells us what more should be done
to protect
footballers good morning there's no
reason west ham
can't finish in the top four that's
according to manager david moyes after
they hold off wolves to move into the
european places
good morning it's another cold start to
the day there's a widespread frost
there's a risk of ice as well and once
again
sunshine and wintry showers and feeling
cool especially
in the wind i'll have all the details
coming up
[Music]
good morning to you it said tuesday the
6th of april our main story for you pubs
restaurants gyms and hair salons will be
among the businesses allowed to reopen
in england from monday of next week the
prime minister confirmed the next phase
of lifting the lockdown will go ahead as
planned but he urged against complacency
and said it was still
too early to confirm the date for
restarting non-essential foreign travel
with more details here's our political
correspondent ear watson
lockdown has been a long hard slog for
many of us but now if you live in
england you may well be working out
what to do next week from april the 12th
you could get in shape in the gym
have your lockdown locks snipped off
take a trip to the shops
and maybe relax outdoors with a drink
you might even run into someone you
recognise in the beer garden
on monday the 12th i will be going to
the pub myself and
cautiously but irreversibly raising a
pint of beer
to my lips but and you know i'm gonna
say this
we can't be complacent we can see the
waves of sickness
afflicting other countries and we've
seen
how this story goes and the prime
minister's looking at how other areas of
the economy can reopen
safely at some major sporting events
this spring there'll be a trial of what
the government calls covert status
certification
and critics describe as vaccine
passports
to gain entry to some venues you'd have
to prove you'd been vaccinated
or that you had a recent negative test
or had some immunity because you'd had
the virus in the past six months
the prime minister said you wouldn't
need these certificates immediately
there is absolutely no question of
people being asked to produce
uh certification or uh covered status
on mondays but it didn't grow them out
further down the line if and when social
distancing is relaxed
and where and when you can go on holiday
is still up in the air
the government says it's still too soon
for you to book a foreign break
but when international travel does
resume the government confirmed
there'll be a traffic light system
you'll need to take a test before
and after you travel from a country in
the green zone as well as those tests
you'll need to self-isolate at home if
you're returning from countries
designated as
amber but it's 10 days of hotel
quarantine
at your own expense if you enter the uk
from a country
on the red list in the prime minister's
words there'll be a semblance of
normality next week in england
but a return to pre-pandemic life is
still some way off
ian watson bbc news and just to let you
know hopper 7 will be speaking to the
vaccine's minister nadine zahawi and
also get the views today
on this from both labour and the lib
dems now police officers searching for
missing students say they have found a
body nineteen-year-old richard okera
gayle
was last seen leaving his home in west
london two weeks ago
as tim muffet reports last seen on cctv
on tuesday march the 23rd
the disappearance of nineteen-year-old
student richard okeragaye prompted
appeals for sightings
and led to extensive searches he had
been shielding during lockdown because
he suffered from sickle cell disease
five days ago police turned their
attention to epping forest in essex
and last night the metropolitan police
said they'd been informed by colleagues
in essex police
that a body had been found in the forest
the statement said that inquiries are
underway to identify the body
and that detectives investigating the
disappearance of nineteen-year-old
richard okeragaye are aware
richard's family are being supported by
specially trained officers
and are being kept updated with
developments would that be unusual
richard's mother has previously
described the past two weeks as a
complete nightmare
and she recently said this about her son
richard is a very very
civilized uh
boy he's uh he's very focused
intelligent
i've been loved by everyone
police officers remained at the scene
where the body was found overnight
inquiries continue tim muffett
bbc news a man will appear before
magistrates today charged with driving a
car
that struck and killed a baby boy in his
pram
two-week-old kieran lee morris was
being pushed along the pavement in brown
hills in the west midlands when the
collision took place on easter sunday
afternoon
a 34 year old man from walsall has been
charged with
causing death by dangerous driving
new zealand has agreed to open a
so-called travel corridor with australia
from the 19th of april allowing
unrestricted movement between the two
countries
australia correspondent sean mckill
joins us now from sydney uh
lovely to speak to you um on the
programme this morning
it feels like a quite a significant
development this give us an idea of
exactly how it will work
it is a significant development because
for more than a year now both countries
have had their borders close to each
other and to the world
except for um for exemptions or special
circumstances we've had a one-way
limited
uh travel bubble where new zealanders
could come to
australia but for the first time really
this is um a quarantine free
travel corridor where passengers can
travel freely between the two countries
jacinda ardern um has just been speaking
in the last few minutes
and detailing how that will work
mainly people wanted to know how it will
work in the case of an outbreak and she
said
that australia essentially will be
treated as a zone
um within new zealand meaning that if
there's an outbreak in one state
in australia travel will be suspended to
that particular state
and and not the whole country she also
said
that passengers will have to give
information about where they can be
contacted
while in new zealand many other details
about contact tracing
and being covered safe but definitely a
very exciting time especially for the
travel and tourism industry
that have suffered a great deal on both
sides
shaman thank you very much for that
information good to speak to you
26 centers to help pregnant women and
new mothers
with their mental health are being set
up across england
nhs england say the centers which will
also support bereaved mothers
are part of the biggest transformation
of maternal mental health services
in the world our health correspondent
laura foster has the details
one two three
for many people having a baby is the
most wonderful moment of their life
but around a quarter of women have
trouble with their mental wellbeing
during pregnancy
and in the two years after giving birth
lizzie suffered from post-traumatic
stress disorder while she was pregnant
after she'd previously had a miscarriage
i panicked about
everything and everything was going to
cause a miscarriage
to the point where i couldn't drive so
my husband at that point told me i
needed to speak to my midwife
and sort of pushed me to be a bit more
open about it
and she referred me to the mental health
team
at this hub in plymouth they offer both
maternity services
and highly specialist psychological
treatments
as well as bereavement counselling the
idea is that by having
everything under one roof it's easier to
get help
meaning they'll be able to help
thousands more people every year
it's very important for them to access
mental health support quickly
because um baby and children can't wait
so when you have a woman in the
perinatal period she
needs to nurse a dependent child
and actually if her mental health is not
great then that can
impact on her ability to nurse her child
work on these hubs began before the
coronavirus pandemic
but nhs england says the last year could
mean even more demand for their mental
health services
a lot will depend on how society
unlocks as it were over the spring and
the summer now what happens in the year
ahead
because women who are struggling don't
just need services or benefit from
services they
often benefit from the support of their
friends or their mother and toddler
groups
10 sites will be ready in the next few
months the remaining 16 are set to have
opened their doors
by this time next year laura foster bbc
news
we know don't we that occasionally there
are there are risks involved with
with live television things can go wrong
we definitely know that yeah um
i love you some of you may have seen
this before but this is just a wonderful
mischievous a golden retriever reporters
out there
i'm doing a very serious live about
spring
um and then actually something else did
um i think this is from russia isn't it
she gave chase very well though
rather impressively and they were
reunited later on and and this time the
the dog uh didn't grab the bike
yeah it's nice to see them sort of
reunited in that way and
it looked a little bit too serious first
time around well i think if that
happened
to us we'd have a good giggle about it
but it seemed like it was better would
you give chase
i think i would yeah i think it probably
would too you would come back here you
little rat bank
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest
with bbc news